In this video, we are going to initialize
the Spring Framework Guru Pet Clinic
project. You can see up on the screen,
I have github up in Chrome. So what I
want to do, there's actually several
different ways I could do this. I could
do just about everything right through
IntelliJ to create a github repository,
but I'm going to do a little bit more
hands-on. This is my particular workflow.
There's quite several different ways of
doing this to be honest, but this is how
I like to create a new repository. So I'm
going to come up here. I'm going to say
New Repository. We'll call on sfg-pet-clinic.
Right now, I have this under development
so when I have things under development
I will make the repositories Private.
That just means I have to remember to do
it to make it public before I release
this material but I'm going to make it
private for right now I say I work on it.
Surprisingly, my github repositories like
one of the top github repositories in
Tampa Bay area. There's a map out there
that you can look things up and find
out who's most popular and somehow I
happen to be the most popular
oddly enough. I'm going to go ahead and
add a .gitignore for Java. I don't
like the standard one but I'm just going
go ahead Initialize it with a README,
clone the repository like so,
and now, what we can do, I come over
here and say Clone or download. I'm going
copy this. Actually, I'll use the SSH one
because when you're using github, if
you're on OSX or Linux, SSH makes it
pretty easy. Windows, I think you can
install the github bash client to use
SSH or use putty. Otherwise, HTTP is
probably going to be better for Windows
users. But without getting into long
explanation, SSH allows to set up a key
which I've done so I can authenticate
pretty seamlessly with github from the
command line and we can see here, I got
the command line up. You can see
here's a number of repos that I have in
the course and what I'm going to do here,
let clear the screen. I'm just going to
say git clone and that's going to clone
the repo.
Now if I do a list, we can see here sfg-pet-clinic. That directory has been
created. I do a cd into sfg tab
and i'll clear the screen real quick.
I'm doing
ls -ltra and a shows hidden files so we
can see there's the .gitignore and the
README file as well as the git directory.
So in this little directory here, it's
all the secret sauce to git which makes
this directory a github track directory.
So now what I want to do is I'm going to
come over to IntelliJ and I'm going to
create the first project and you could
say I have the recipe app. We will be
getting into all this goodness coming up
in the course. But for right now, what I
would do is come over here and say a new
project.
I'm going to use good old Spring
Initializer. Now I am going through
IntelliJ to do this. If you don't have
IntelliJ and you want follow along at
home,
you can go to the URL start.spring.io
and use the web interface which will
download a zip file of everything I'm
showing you but I'm going to use
IntelliJ and show you how to initialize
this project via IntelliJ. Again, this
is my personal workflow for kicking off
a new Spring project. So now I'm going to
say Next.
I'm going to say sfg-pet-clinic. Let me
double check something. I want to make
sure I have sfg-pet-clinic and it's
my own personal workflow, my own personal
organization so I'm taking that sfg-pet-clinic and I'm going to make the
artifact sfg-pet clinic, so that's
okay.
We can see that default package
Spring Framework Guru, and again, this is
a Java naming convention, particular to
the Java developers to use the reverse
domain of what you're working on so if
you're working at google.com you'd be
doing com.google so a very common thing
to do for Java development. The
package is we're doing this the reverse
domain name is a way to prevent
collisions. We are going to use Java, Jar. Currently using Java 8, industry
is still kind of migrating. Java 9
wasn't widely adopted. At the time of
recording, 10 is out. I'm going to start
making the transition right now. Majority
of the industry is still on 8. Tooling is
starting to catch up to the new release
of Java. You'll find the Java community
can be pretty conservative. 9 was a
pretty big release on a lot change. They
got the kinks worked out and now the
tooling is all catching up to 10.
We'll start with switching over to that
recent cycle. I expect by the time we
get this complete, we will actually going
transition the project over to Java 10.
But for right now, I'm going stick with
Java 8. Say next. Now if you could
look at the web configuration or the
start.spring.io you'll see a number
of options. What I want to do is I'm
going to be taking Spring Boot 2.0.3. I'm
not going to be using the snapshots, so we
are on a stable release of Spring Boot 2.
I want DevTools. We'll take Lombok.
That's some goodness there. Just looking
through here what else we want. We'll
just use regular web
and we do not need any other stuff.
I'm just glancing through this. We will
be bringing in Thymeleaf. Ultimately, we
do want MySQL and H2 for in memory
database.
NoSQL integration, We're not going to
get into any of the cloud stuff. We can
see we got quite a few things to select
from there.
Just make sure all the Batch, Mail, Camel,
we're not going to be utilizing. Ops, we
definitely do want to bring in Spring
Boot Actuator. I'm not going to be
showing you admin server or client.
That's actually some really cool
stuff for microservices, where you can
register a Spring Boot Admin (Server) and
then your notes of the microservices
will register it. It's kind of a
real nice project but we will not be
getting into that. This is going to
start us off. We will be adding more
dependencies as we get more and
more into it. I'm going to double check that.
I do want JPA. The JPA option, that
brings in the JPA API and spring-data-jpa
so we will definitely be utilizing
that and Hibernate under the covers. I'm
going to be using MySQL for our target
and we might have some fun with
Flyway or Liquibase coming up but I'm
going to leave those out for right now.
Let's go ahead and say Next. What
I want to do is change this directory
structure.
I'm going to come back down here to
spring.framework.guru courses spring5 and
Spring Pet Clinic. I'm going to
say go ahead
and open that. By setting this
directory here, in Project name and also
directory to the sfg-pet-clinic. What's
going to happen in the background when I
say Finish, IntelliJ it's going to call out
to start.spring.io
and get the project and it's going to drop
it down and then index the project.
I'm going to go ahead and click Finish
right now. What's happening is
IntelliJ is going out. It's
downloading. You saw a little window pop
up there. Set it, downloaded it and I'm
going to say Enable Auto-import. Just
as a quick tip. If you have a really
really big project, sometimes an auto
import becomes a headache. This is
not a problem. I've been on some rather
complex projects. I will be changing that
to auto import. Clicked on the wrong
thing there.
Now what we can see is that we've
brought this down. You can see that
IntelliJ is highlighting it and what I
want to do here, this is another thing I
always do.
Let's collapse this. Come
over here to .gitignore. I like to show you the
contrast here. I stole a lot of this.
It's like my personal .gitignore file so
it brings down a lot of stuff. If we come
in and look at the pet clinic. Bring up
it's .gitignore, this was probably
replaced with the download from
start.spring.io. What I want to do is
replace that
in this.
I think that mine is
much more comprehensive, so I'm going to go
ahead and save that. I saw some stuff
in there but that means before I pasted
over it, I don't know if any potential
are you still using NetBeans to be honest.
I think this is a lot more
comprehensive. Again, I took a lot of
this from the JHipster project so this
gives us a number of ignores that we
don't want to be checking in. You can see
here like this iml file. This is an IDE
specific file. One thing that will get
you in trouble with other developers, if
you start checking those into your
repository, definitely a no-no. What I
want to do here now is add in these
files.  I'm going to do a Git
Add
I also want to add in, this is a
Maven Wrapper. This allows us to run Maven
from the command line. We'll also add
him. We want to add this in as well.
Just as a quick tour of what Spring brought
down for us, so we can see the basic pom
that was created. This was generated from
start.spring.io. It gives us a number
of Spring Boot Starters. We'll get into
those further. It gives us a stub of
a project. Not too much in there. We
just have a Spring Boot Application
class, a main class, and I think we'll get
in. We'll get folders for static and
templates. Now one thing that's a quirk
about git, the way it works, if the folder
is empty, I don't think those will get
checked in. But if there's a file inside
the folder, then it will get checked
in even if the file like the application.properties
is empty, that we'll get
it checked in. With the stove of our
initial project that we downloaded is
going to give us an application test.
This looks like, I think this is JUnit 4.
Yeah JUnit 4. We will be
changing over to JUnit 5 coming up in the
course and we will be getting into
testing. This here is the entire
project. Everything that's pretty much in
green. The stuff that we brought down
from the start.spring.io on this there
are base Spring Boot project. From
here, we are going to build upon that.
What I'm going to do now, this is just a
generic project that we checked in or
created. Now what I want to do is come
down to Gi. Commit directory.
Now we get a dialogue.
Say Initial Project Add and we can see
we're still indexing the project so it's
not happy about that. Normally what I do
is I turn off code analysis into dues
and change on Optimized Imports, so I'm
just going to go ahead and Commit right now.
We'll change that at a future point.
In IntelliJ, you can do a Commit and
remember in github, if you commit, it
only commits to your local github
repository. You have to push it to the
remote repository so that's what I want
to do. I'm going to do a Commit and Push
and I'm going to say go right ahead, Commit
and now I want to say Push.
You can see down
at the bottom, I get a little spending
ball that's pushing. Push is successful
so everything's been pushed up to github.
Now if I come over here to Spring Pet
Clinic, we can see that I just had
the two files there. If I've refresh
this, now we can see that the project has
been checked into github so we have the
basic stub, so in this video, I showed you
how to create the initial project. We
want step by step. My workflow is to
create the github repository first, even
though I could initialize that
externally. A couple different ways to do
that. Just my personal workflow. Create
the repository first and then I went to
IntelliJ, created the project through
start.spring.io using IntelliJ.
Download that project into the working
directory. Actually I skipped a step
there were I went over the command line.
I checked out the project to a working
directory on my local machine. Then I
went to IntelliJ and created the project
and then I committed it and I pushed it
so now all my project files are now up
here on github.